Welcome to act number three,
creating the content.
Now that we know who the audience is
and what the purpose is of our presentation,
let's talk about creating the content of our presentation.
I love this section, okay.
You get to be very creative here, it's exhilarating.
And once we have perfected your content,
meaning what we are going to say,
then in the next act, which is act four,
we can create the slides, right,
if you're using slides, that is.
Now in terms of the what of this current act,
which is act three,
there's four different sections or scenes, as follows.
In act three, scene one,
we're going to talk about the best ways
to start our presentation or our speech
by writing an incredible starting content portion
of our speech, okay.
And we're going to spend a lot of time
on starting our speech
because you never get a second chance
to make that first impression.
And in act three, scene two,
after we're done with the start of our speech,
in scene two we're going to talk about
the middle content part of our speech,
meaning what to include,
as well as how to structure the speech or presentation.
And then in act three, scene three,
we're going to talk about the best way
to end our speech or presentation
by creating very, very impactful final content, okay.
And then in act three, scene four,
we're going to talk about how to get feedback
on the content of your speech before you create the slides
and before you work on the delivery, okay.
In terms of the why, we need to have a separate act
for creating the content,
a separate act for creating the slides,
and a separate act for creating the delivery.
Well, I analyzed the,
this was a lot of fun,
I analyzed the top musicians and the top movies.
And singers often write the music
and the lyrics separately.
Similarly, movies are made, right,
but writing the script comes first
and then you pick the actors later
and then you work on post-production, right,
kind of like make a you to me course, okay.
And so this is why I want to cover the content of our speech
before discussing the slide structure in act four,
and then our delivery later on in the course.
Now in terms of the,
"How are we going to create the content?"
Well, we're going to look at great quotes to start a speech.
We're also going to look at
how to structure brilliant, unstructured ideas
so that your speech is organized,
so we can create slides and then the delivery, okay.
And there's many, many, many different examples
in this very long section, okay.
We're going to discuss
how you can stand out from other speakers,
how you can be different, okay.
And we're also going to talk about
dealing with writer's block
and how to really get inspired
to create your masterpiece of a speech.
And please remember,
the life often comes down to a few short moments,
and one of these moments is your speech.
Personally, this is just me,
I spend 60 to 90 minutes preparing for my speech
for each one minute of time in my speech.
For example, if my speech is going to be 10 minutes long,
I would usually spend 600 to 900 minutes
or 10 to 15 hours preparing for my speech, at a minimum.
And it used to be a lot longer when I was younger,
before I learned this stuff that I'm going to teach you.
And again, I want to teach you to work smarter
and not harder, and not to make the same mistakes I made.
If it's a game-changing speech
for my career or my personal life,
I will literally spend 100 to 200 minutes
preparing for each minute in a 10 minute speech.
And you can do the math there, it's a lot,
but it's totally, totally worth it.
Why so long?
Because one speech can change everything.
And sometimes life all comes down to a few short moments
and often, business is war,
and every battle is won before it's been fought.
Now in terms of understanding how long your speech will be
when you deliver it,
if you were to type your speech outline
or all of the text, which is optional,
do what you want to do,
and you want to find out
how long the speech is going to be when you say it.
You basically, you count up the number of words, right,
Microsoft Word, you can go to count words, whatever,
and then you go to a website called
www.speechinminutes.com
speechinminutes.com to see how long your speech will be.
And I actually find that my actual speech
is about 10% shorter, timewise,
when I practiced,
as I sometimes forget to include a few items.
And nobody ever notices, anyway.
And if you forget stuff, no one's going to know, okay.
And sometimes I speak a bit faster when I present
which, again it's an issue
and I'm trying to work on this, okay.
You can never be perfect enough when you speak,
I'm trying so hard, okay.
So when we watch videos of me presenting,
I'll often critique myself, okay.
And again, I want you to present better than the competition
and better than me.
And so we're going to critique me a bunch, okay.
We're going to spend a lot of time
on starting your presentation or speech
because if you lose the audience
in the early part of your presentation,
then it's really, really hard to get that back, okay.
Because the smartphones went, okay.
And it's interesting because, you know,
movies today I've noticed
start much faster than they used to.
You know, it starts with action right away,
like the Fast and Furious franchise.
I actually showed my kids The Wizard of Oz,
which I watched as a kid when we had three channels on TV,
I am old, okay,
and my kids were bored to tears, right.
They said, "Dad! You put the movie on
but it's over already!"
Right, and it's funny they said that
because they way it used to be with movies,
they'd have words at the beginning,
like, "Starring Judy Garland"
or whatever it is, okay.
And the movies that people like today, you know,
start in a more exciting way, etc.
And the bottom line here is
the beginning of your presentation
is more important than the middle part or the ending, right.
And I'm going to provide you
with more than 10 different ways to start your speech
in this act, okay.
And please choose whatever starting method
you think is best for your speech and
or your audience, right.
And I hope you find some inspiration
from some of the speakers that we're going to talk about
in this current act, okay.
And one quick last note,
if you start your speech and it's loud at your event,
or whatever venue it is you're talking at,
just repeat your first line again, right,
and this is exactly why blues singers
repeat the first line in their songs, right,
because they start playing at a bar or a nightclub
and it's loud,
and then everyone kind of like starts,
"Woah, is that the band somewhere?
I guess I'll pay attention."
And so what they do is they just, you know,
they repeat that line, okay.
And anyway, there's plenty of examples out there
in real life, this is kind of cool little trivia.
Anyway, I hope you enjoyed this section.
Thank you.